(upbeat music)
In the last video we talked about how
when you explicitly define you're columns
and you don't define any rows,
they are just automatically created
which is what we call implicit.
Now lets talk about this things called grid auto flow.
And I don't think this is something you're gonna be using
all the time because it determines if your
new elements are added as rows or as columns.
But lets learn it in case you ever do want to do
one of those horizontally scrolling elements.
So lets open up 06 and auto flow start.
I've got two items here and I've displayed gridded it.
Lets turn on our div tools just to make sure
we're sort of watching what's going on here.
Now lets add two columns real quick.
So grid template columns.
400px 200px.
Good, give it a save
and you see that we have one row, two columns
and we've explicitly defined the two columns.
Now what happens when we add a third item.
Well you should know this by now.
It will automatically be wrapped onto the next line
and we will have an implicit row that has been created.
Now grid autoflow, what that will do
is it will determine whether
when you need to add another row or column
because we've only defined enough for two spots here
but we have three.
So what do we do with the extra?
It will define whether that is then created in a row,
which is the default, or if it tacks it onto
the right hand side over here.
Or actually one little neat thing is
depending on which direction your language is in,
some languages CSS grid will read left to right,
but that's another video.
So it will determine whether it will tack it onto
a row or another column.
So by default, we can go in here and we can say
grid auto flow.
And if we say row, it's not gonna do anything,
because that's the default.
The other option is column.
And what that will do, woo, look what we got here.
Lets change this to black and see what we've got.
Now you can see that the extra item
is not being created as a row
but it is now being created as an extra column.
So as we add extra items in here.
Ba da da da do do.
You'll see that they are all automatically added
and they will go to the right and eventually cause
a horizontal scroll to actually happen.
And then we can also go in here and say grid auto columns.
Maybe we want them to be 200 pixels wide.
And now this grid auto columns is saying
anything that, any columns that have been implicitly created
do I need to zoom in?
Dotted line, that means it's being implicitly created.
You see the solid one defines where the explicit grid ends.
Then those will be 200 pixels
and you can see that they scroll.
And I've got some fun stuff going on with my background here
because of the gradient that starts and stops.
So, again, I haven't found a whole lot of use case for that.
Maybe you will find a use case for wanting them
to go left to right or right to left
instead of top to bottom.
In flex mox we sorta have a similar thing
with flex direction, which be default
when you add a flex item they go left to right
but you can also flip it to be a column
and it will go top to bottom as well as reverse.
There is no reverse in CSS grid.
Other than that, that is grid auto flow.
You can change it to row or column or
and the pretty cool one is actually this
called grid auto flow dense.
But that's pretty cool.
It will sort of like fit them in where there's space
but we need to learn a little bit more about
sizing these actual items first,
before we can get into that dense one.
See you in the next one.
(upbeat music)